# Portfolio
This is an online portfolio I built, showcasing my projects, education and background. This is actually my very first online portfolio. I felt like I needed to create one as having a portfolio is a necessity for any programmer or developer. Creating it from start to finish and pushing it up online took about a month's worth of work. I started on October 23rd, I pushed it up online on November 20th and made a few more changes such that I was completely satisfied with it on November 21st. Though by the time you're reading this, I may have made even more changes to it. You can check out the portfolio [here](https://simeon-davenport-portfolio.onrender.com/).

## Building Process
The core of my portfolio is built with Next.js. This was actually my very first time using Next.js. I also utilized React and Tailwind as well. This was my first time using Tailwind as well, and my first time React for an actual project. I followed along an [online tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=04bNEnIzCJc) that walked through how to create a Next.js application utilizing React and Tailwind. This tutorial was very helpful with familiarizing me with the basics of creating a Next.js application, and I learned quite a bit about using Next.js, React and Tailwind throughout. Also, just like the application built in the tutorial, I decided to incorporate a Strapi application with my portfolio. This also taught me quite a bit about how to use Strapi and the Strapi Rest API. I did this not only because the tutorial I was watching used it, but also because I felt like having all my information in a content management system would be beneficial. This way, I would not be hardcoding my information into my code and, in the future, if I create a new project and want to add it to my portfolio, I could simply create a new project on my Strapi application and have it automatically show on my portfolio in real time. Although I did face a number of challenges and difficulties while coding, it was nothing I couldn't eventually overcome. Although I did take a lot of inspiration from the tutorial I was watching, I also decided to include a couple additional features, like having each individual project page have a slide show where you can swipe through each uploaded screenshot of the project, which I accomplished using Glide.js, as well as a working email form on the contact page, which uses Sendgrid to send me an email (this required me to sign up for a Sendgrid account). I also got some feedback throughout my process about deciding what else to add/remove/change, etc.

## Pushing Online
I knew that pushing up my application online would have obstacles. I would need to push not online my Next.js application online, but my Strapi application too. I decided to use Render to push them online, as I had already used it to push two Node.js applications (which you can check out [here](https://learningjavascript-todoapp.onrender.com)<sup>1</sup> and [here](https://learningjavascript-ourapp.onrender.com)) that I learned how to build from a Udemy course on there (which was actually created by the same guy who made that Next.js/Strapi tutorial I was following along with for this portfolio). However, I realized that pushing a Strapi application onto Render would likely cost money, as I would need to pay for Render's disks. As I was not comfortable paying money before I get a full-time job, I decided to try and find a way around this. I ended up discovering [another set of tutorials](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLVoKTq3-H4pjUy7hfCB0Ei1QBSnevxfhI) which walked through not only how to push Render online, but also to make the data persist without paying any money. What I would need to do was change my Strapi application's database from SQLite to PostgreSQL, and then push my Data onto a Neon database, which required me to sign up for a Neon account. After setting Neon up and making some modifications to my Strapi application, I pushed the Next.js and Strapi applications onto Render, then used a Strapi transfer token to push my data up onto Strapi and to the Neon database. And with that, my portfolio was officially online. The next day, however, I discovered that my images were not persisting. As it turns out, just like the data would have if it was not in a Neon database, when the free server spins down, the images are erased. I went back to those set of tutorials and learned how to push my images up to Cloudinary. I signed up for a Cloudinary account, installed the Cloudinary plugin for Strapi, followed along with the video, made some modifications in my Next.js code so it would pull in the new URL, and with that, my images began to persist, and my portfolio was officially done for the time being.

## Conclusion
Building this portfolio not only gave me quite a bit of experience in using Next.js, React, Tailwind and Strapi, but will also hopefully assist me in my career. As of the time I'm writing this, I still do not have a full-time job. I am hoping having an online portfolio detailing my background, projects and education will make employers more likely to hire me. Additionally, I also imagine that I will use Sendgrid, Neon and/or Cloudinary in the future since I signed up for all of them in making this portfolio. Now that I have accounts on them and know the basics of how to use them, I imagine that will give me even more experience and help me with additional projects or jobs in the future. If you have any feedback or critiques of my portfolio, I'm all ears! Send me an email at simmywim@hotmail.com and let me know what you think I should change. And if you're an employer who's impressed by my projects and skills, I am open to any opportunities you have for me! Thank you for taking the time to look at my portfolio, and I look forward to whatever waits in store for me in the future.

### Notes
1. Username is "learn" and password is "javascript".
